2
Optimistic Nihilism: Does it matter that it doesn’t matter?
P. L. Anthony
The universe is such a colossal and huge abode that I sometimes wonder what we humans signify in this seemingly infinite cosmos? I mean there could be trillions of alien beings existing out there, billions of livable planets, and millions more mysterious wonders all in this huge place. Doesn’t that make you feel a bit small? We, humans, are just tiny dots of dust compared to this humongous place. Our feeble human minds can’t fathom how vast, huge, and enormous the space we exist in is.



If that’s the case then, do our decisions in life matter? Just look at how irrelevant your troubles and worries are to this universe. We are only hairless primates, no better than monkeys and chimps. We live in a vast cosmos, and our planet is roughly the size of an atom in the solar system. We live and eventually perish as though we don’t have any purpose whatsoever.



In short, life is meaningless. All our dreams and goals have no substantial value. We’ll all die and will likely be forgotten like footprints on the soil during a rainstorm.



Does it sound so depressing? Absolutely! But the truth hurts, buddy.



This is where the philosophy of nihilism comes in specifically, existential nihilism. But what does it mean? Existential nihilism is the philosophical notion that existence has no fundamental purpose or value. A human as an individual is a speck in the eyes of the universe that is unconcerned with it. There is no fundamental reason for being or anything of the kind.



If everything is meaningless, then why bother doing anything? If we’re all going to die someday, then we might as well be dead right now, right? NO. It doesn’t have to be that way, we can turn this thing all the way around.



What if instead of indulging yourself in a depressing state knowing that nothing you do matters, you use it for motivation, perhaps an inspiration. But how?



Well, hear me out. Nothing matters. Yep, repeat that. “Nothing matters”, that means you can do anything that you want, after all, nothing you do matters, right? Just because everything is meaningless, it doesn’t mean we can’t enjoy ourselves in our lifetime. We can enjoy the life we have, even if it is limited.



Nobody exists on purpose which gives us some sort of freedom to give purpose or meaning to our own lives. Accepting the lack of purpose and using it to uplift oneself is the main concept of Optimistic Nihilism.



Optimistic Nihilism is the awareness that there is no meaning in the world and the cosmos as a whole can be liberating. We are the ones who can construct our route since there is no inherited purpose in life, no divine plan compelling you to act a specific way. In truth, we are the ones who create our purpose.



For instance, you’re reading this article, knowing that it will end soon, knowing that reading this has no fundamental reason but you still read it. You read it to enjoy and understand the aforementioned concepts. It’s like looking at every word of this article and saying, “That’s an awesome word.”



In short, Optimistic Nihilism allows you to appreciate things such as life even though knowing the fact that it will come to its inevitable end. We’ll all die and that’s our fate. However, if you focus your mind on the present, you’ll know that there are things to be joyful about. Life is about the journey rather than its destination. We will all eventually come to an end but we don’t know when it will happen.



So while we’re here, we should appreciate what we have while we have it. We can choose the purpose of our lives ourselves. We can define our meaning.



Then, what’s your purpose? The answer is up to you.



After all, it doesn’t matter that it doesn’t matter.
---
3
The Big Bang Theory explained by a student
P. L. Anthony
Our homeworld, Earth, is the third planet in the solar system that revolves around the sun that also revolves around our galaxy, the Milky Way, which is included in a group of galaxies called the Local Group, that form part of the Virgo Supercluster, which is itself a component of Laniakea Supercluster. You get the point. The universe is a pretty large place to be in and believe me or not, it is still expanding. Of course, the rate of expansion today is not comparable to what it once was in the first seconds of the universe after the “Big Bang”.



There I said it, the Big Bang. Now, you might wonder what is the Big Bang. It is a theory and the most accepted scientific explanation of what is the universe’s origin, properties, and evolution. According to the said theory, the universe began 14 billion years ago in an extremely hot and dense state called the infinitesimal singularity which then cooled and began to expand rapidly. That infinitesimal singularity is a million billion billionths the size of a single atom. Can you imagine that?



Now, this is where it gets confusing. Because of the term Big Bang, many people assumed (including me) that it is an explosion but it was not. Rather than an explosion, it is an expansion, a rapid one. The onomatopeia “bang” is always associated with guns, bombs, and explosions, thus many people are misled by this.



As per the theory, the universe, including time, space, and energy, was condensed into the aforementioned tiny singularity, which began to expand and cool. The Big Bang is the expansion of space. This means that the universe has no center since the singularity was not in a place on the planes of space or time because the singularity is the space and time itself. Isn’t that mind-boggling?



But, what really caused that singularity to expand, to begin with? Quantum fluctuations are the most known assumption that made the subsequent inflation into the universe we know of today. It is the random change in the amount of energy at a point in space that likely triggered the said inflation. But in all honesty, no one really knows what happened during the earliest time of the universe or if there was even a “bang”. We can only observe everything after the aforementioned “expansion”.



There are at least three observations that support the Big Bang theory: cosmic microwave background radiation, the abundance of light elements, and the expansion of the universe.



Cosmic microwave background radiation is the remnant of the heat left by the Big Bang. Astronomers found microwaves, light with a significantly longer wavelength, in previously dark portions of the cosmos by using more powerful and sensitive telescopes. They determined that the microwaves were thermal radiation from the early stages of the universe’s development

The abundance of light elements in the universe is a piece of crucial evidence that backs the Big Bang theory. The elements detected in the Universe are now understood to have been produced in one of two ways. Light elements (deuterium, helium, and lithium) were created in the initial few minutes of the Big Bang, while elements heavier than helium are assumed to have originated in the interiors of stars that formed far later in the Universe’s history.

The universe has been expanding ever since the Big Bang. Astronomers use the doppler shift of light from stars and galaxies to determine how objects in the universe move in relation to the Earth and one another. They eventually concluded that every galaxy and other objects in the universe is traveling away from each other at roughly the same rate.

On top of this factual evidence: cosmic microwave background radiation, the abundance of light elements, and the expansion of the universe, the Big Bang theory remains to be incomplete. The theory explains what happened after the inflation yet it fails to explain what was there before the inflation or was there even inflation, to begin with.



The Big Bang theory is only a hypothesis rather than a tested theory. It is an effort to physically explain the beginning of the universe. The theory did a great job of tying the gathered data and projecting all of this motion to an origin point. But like any other theory, it has a fatal flaw, “What caused the Big Bang to happen and why didn’t it just stay on eternal singularity?”. Again, we don’t know and we won’t even know, given our current depth of understanding. But I’d rather be honest about our stupidity than makeup stories to hide it.
---